Examples of consent

 I agree to participate in the Lifelines study aimed at unravelling the interaction between genetic and environmental factors in the onset and course of a number 
 of different
between genetic and environmental factors in the development and progression of a number of different
common chronic diseases 
I agree that researchers can use the data (hospital admission, diagnosis,
treatment and medication) in my medical records from my general practitioner or from hospitals, nursing homes or other
other institutions where I have received medical treatment, as well as of my data in registries in so far as they relate to the purpose of the project.



I agree that researchers may contact me with additional questions and surveys that are
relevant to understanding healthier ageing and chronic disease.


Researchers can get access to health data/genetic data after an approved application for
scientific research. In some cases (e.g. if the research falls under the xxx) the research proposal is first assessed by the Medical Ethics Review
In some cases (e.g. if the research is covered by the xxx), the research proposal is first assessed by the Medical Ethics Review Committee (METc). We want to know
carried out by a professional researcher.


If we have approved a research request, the data without personal contact details (such as name, address and place of residence) are made accessible to researchers.
address) are made accessible to researchers. Researchers can gain access via a secure working environment (of the
xxxx). Researchers receive a personal login name and password. It is also laid down in a contract what the researcher may do with the data and that 
may not use the data for other purposes.

and that project determines who has access to the data. Body material and genetic data are also provided without personal contact details.
For body materials and genetic data, these are also provided without personal contact details. In this way, the researcher cannot identify who the 
data belongs to.
The researchers treat this data confidentially and meet the conditions stated in the xxx.


We will retain your data for 30 years after scientific research into xxx has been completed. Researchers keep the
data for 15 years after the end of the research in question. We will keep contact details for up to 2 years after your request has been
answered.
